Icons are a really important part of any design system.
We use them for a variety of things like forms, navigation, buttons.
They're used almost everywhere.
Now there are a couple of figma plug ins that you can use, and the main one I like to use is icon.
I also like to use material design plugin, which is really great.
I've used it through some lessons and let's use it today to kind of put something together.
So let me show you how it works.
So let's open our plug ins.
Let's go into something like Icon Ify and this is our plug in here.
And now you'll notice that there's different things we can do.
We can actually search by sets.
So we have like Google material icons, we have unicorns.
We have all these different types of icons that we could use, which is really great.
You can search something up over here.
So if I search for something like home and press enter, I can filter by an icon or I can see all of
them and go through different of a variety of icons here.
I typically use this just to grab icons very quickly.
So if I need to fill in a wireframe with some iconography or I'm just kind of testing out some concepts,
this is what I'll do.
I'll just kind of grab this like that.
And here I can kind of just.
Set anything I'd like to set, I would import the icon.
And there we go.
I can update the frame copy.
I can work with the vector.
I can name it whatever I want.
Let's go through a little demo on how to kind of fill in a navigation and how to do that pretty easily
with something like Icon Ify.
I'm going to actually just create a new frame click.
F Actually, let's create a mobile frame.
So we're going to click off and we're going to just pick the iPhone again.
And what we'll do is we will create another frame and we'll just sticky that to the bottom.
So we don't need to really worry too much about our sizing right now.
At least I just want to focus on getting some icons in here.
And we can actually create a grid in here.
So we'll do that.
We'll create a grid instead of there.
Well, we're actually going to set up some columns.
So we're going to pick four icons.
So we'll set up four columns for those icons to sit within and we'll create a gutter of 16 pixels,
all using 16 on mobile.
And for a margin, I'd like to use 16 or 24.
So we'll just do that.
And there we go.
We can also make this nav really nice if we want.
We can create a nice drop shadow behind it.
Set that blur to something like 30.
Negative ten.
And let's fill this.
That's a little too harsh for a drop shadow.
But this.
A little more subtle so we can toggle our grids with control.
G Just like that.
So I'm just toggling on and off.
Now what I'm going to do next is I'm going to start thinking about what type of icons I want here.
So if I'm thinking about our client habitual, I'm thinking about maybe I need a home screen.
So.
Well, first of all, what I really want to do is I want to make sure that I'm picking from a certain
icon set.
So let's go all the way back to the beginning.
And we can actually just select like material design icons.
And if I search up just based off of that here, let's select it.
I search for home.
And there we go.
You can tell everything's part of the same family here.
They even have rounded options as well.
Let's just grab this icon.
We can drag it into there.
So we've got 24 by 24 pixel frame.
You got the home icon that sits within.
Let's think of another option.
We could have.
We could have a heart.
So for a wish list section.
So there you go.
We have our heart.
Let's not move that outside of the frame.
Let's keep that frame.
It's going to help us.
Maybe another option is something like orders.
Oh, we don't have orders.
We can kind of do something like this.
Like a list.
I like that.
I'll work for now.
And the last one we can do is settings.
So maybe a gear.
Yeah, that's going to work.
Okay, let's close this.
Now we have our icons.
That's awesome.
And we're going to drag them within that navigation frame.
So let's reading this to navigation.
Remember to always kind of name your frames, keep track of them.
Things can get really messy, really easy.
So I'm going to do is I'm going to place this in the middle.
You know, places where in the middle you see how they're kind of snapping together.
They're equal in terms of their horizontal and vertical positioning.
We can kind of go in there and just fix that a bit.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to actually have some text as well.
So that could also help in navigation.
Just pairing an icon with some text that's a little too big.
Use something like 12 or even ten.
It doesn't need to be too big.
Great.
I like that.
We're just going to copy that.
Over.
Remember to set your constraints.
Two left and right.
So if we do happen to resize this, it'll stick with your actual columns.
So let's do that over here as well.
We call this one wish list.
We got some variation over here in the column sizing.
We'll call this one orders.
And this one we are going to call settings.
Great.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to make sure that these are just a little bit above.
The text.
And if we actually select them all and we want to align them on the same horizontal grid or horizontal
line, we'll just go up here.
That's perfect.
So let's center these to make sure they are actually centered.
Boom.
Center to the text.
We can actually turn off that grid now, I think.
And there we go.
We have our own little navigation and we can.
To the overall opacity through the pass through over here on this layer, so we can turn them down to
like something like 20 and so we can see that our home is active.
Now what we want to do here is we want to set this to center and center.
These icons will all be set to center and center.
And so if we do somehow want to make this, like, responsive and we want to scale and not have to worry
about these icons, we won't have to.
So let's zoom in here and I'll show you what I mean.
Oops.
The overall frame.
I forgot about that.
It's most important.
There you go.
And you can see that they're not scaling, but they are staying centered to their own column.
So if we turn those columns on, you can see that they're going to stay within them.
We won't necessarily do this on mobile a bunch at least, but this is just a helpful tip for when you're
actually working with your layers.
If you don't want to use a plug in like that, you can actually go to the material design website and
use their actual website to download those plug ins.
Like you'll just have much more control you'll be able to select based off if you want it to be outlined,
if you want it to be rounded, you can do all of that.
If you do really like Google material icons and you want to go through Icon Phi, there's actually a
plug in for that.
This right here, material design icons.
And here you have all the icons in every which style and you can use these to really help you pick just
based off of material design icons and it's the same kind of concept.
So you just select your icon and I'll drop it immediately into your Figma file, and that's it for putting
together a quick navigation with some plugins.